Some other languages apart from,  in my country I know three, four.
How many languages should I know? You tell me.  They do not say, or course, isn't it?
In Russia, from Japan, all over you see so many languages.
But this Philip told me in Japan, the one who is the leader,
that they are not against us at all.
They are against this 'OM cult' which was there.
But as he said, "You are a family, you are not a cult".
They are not against us in Japan. They are very anxious.
And also, they were
saying, "You should build a temple here of Mother".
I was surprised.
They want to make a temple. I am still living and they want to make a temple already.
You see, everybody is fed up of all this nonsense.
When I went to Japan first, 'baba'
the whole was nothing but Geishas' houses. Geishas.
So, the people were there, from my
husband's office people,
they said, "Where to take you? There are only Geishas' houses". So, I said, "Take me to Geishas' houses".
"So, how can you go to Geishas ?", they burst out.
"If you can go, I can also. What's wrong?"
So, we went there; of course, they told us about them
how they laugh and this, that.
So, the Geisha - I had lots of bangles on me.
So, she looked at them, she said, "It makes a very beautiful sound" I said, "Yes. You want it?"
She said, "Yes". They said, "NO!" All of them.
"No, how can you give her them?" I said, "Why?" "They are not auspicious people".
I was surprised: they knew that doing this Geishas' work is not auspicious.
You see, so there's already 'dharma' within you,
the religion is within you.
They wouldn't allow me andthey told,
"Don't touch them, you are pure ladies, you don't touch them".
They are very normal women, you know. They came
and give us food and very properly dressedalso.
But I was surprised at the Japanese, how they understood the importance of pure life.
Where are you all staying?
All here, Shri Mataji, in this hotel, all of us, the same hotel Shri Mataji.
-Where?
-All of us in the same hotel here.
-Same hotel?
-Yes, we have differnt rooms.
He is in another, he didn't know.
Me and Heliopolis
Ah! They gave this award to that man and he's
exposed in every newspaper!
Horrible thingscoming out of that! Even yesterday, there was some in the CNN,
andthe CNN people said that it was a very big mistake
on part of these.
And they said, "How could they give it to this man who was a criminal?"
And all the Eastern countries, you see- do you all saw that?
No, I didn't see. I just hear now.
-Right from Japan-
-I'mvery happy hear.
- To Australia have banned.
I'm very happy to hear that.
It's veryunusual, the whole thing is happeningin such a way, you can't believe it.
Actually, you see, they don't believe in God.
They don't believein spirituality. They can't understand
Because when CP went there and gave me thebook, there are 12 mayors of very differentcountries
who have said about it. 12 Mayors.
And also2 Prime Ministers of Canada.
But still, theygive it to this man.
And one of them is a what you call, a self-exiled man.
He lives in Australia and theAustralians told us
that he's begging everywhere,asking for money, this thing.
And also, their people were, one third,at the most,
were Christians.
So, the Catholic peopleis, they have converted, most
of them, very few areleft now, who are not converted.
And so now they want a separate state for the Catholics.
It's a, all a Catholic Church, sort of a, you can call the mafia - Catholic church.
And just to oppose the Muslims.
Yousee, if they go like this,
the rift will be much more.
This is not what the people of this award
they should not havedone
They're just playing into the hands ofthe church.
No, but two of them are Prime Minister.
Retired Prime Ministers, twoof them.
One of them is from the Lutheran Church.
He's not a Catholic. But no, I don't think any Bishop
should become a juge. They are not.
And two of them are Prime Ministers, retired.
But the SwedishPrime Minister took a lot of money for
this BO force of this Rajiv Gandhi thatwe have.
I don't know what sort of Prime Minister
they have there, in Norway.
They are very highly placed people to do such
a stupid thing that all over the world they are criticized.
Nobody even knew wheretheir Timor was.
their was nobody they had to give a
Nobody and it matters.
You see, they had to give a map.
Shri Mataji, when we heard it in thenews, that from
East Timor, really, nobody knew where it was.
And that tooEast in such a small little spot,
in the corner of something.
But when CP went there, you see, the man
who saw all that and he said, "Oh, ‘baba’ this is definite 100%".
But of course the committee
will have to decide but if you ask me it's complete.
What is it?
It's the telephone.
I have, Shri Mataji, I have read some verysharp criticism.
Come here. I can't hear you. My ears have gone off in the plane.
I have read some very sharp criticism
of this Nobel Peace Prize being givento this man.
I read very sharp criticism of the
fact that the Peace Prize was given the wayit was given.
The main idea was that theNobel committee
has become so politicalthat they no more judge.
Of course, itwas just to fight the
Indonesian people.
First not only political, but also they very fundamentalist
because they wanted to give it to these twoCatholics.
This is obviously why should you supportthem?
They should give it to these people inIreland
Why not give to them?
If by Revolutionif you are going to bring peace,
I've never seen it happen.
It's the evolution but they don't want to accept.
Maybe, Ithink, you see, they might have heard
from these French, they call us cult and all that.
But there isa proof of it, you see. They have
made a beautifulbrochure, no doubt of it.
CP is hoping against hope still. He felt very sad.
I was- it's all right, what does it matter?
But imagine in this light, whatever it is, how these
people are exposed to such an extent horrible criticism?
How can you imagine so
many countries banning this man?
I think this was the best way for the Noble
committee, whether it's for peace or for anything else,
to make a bad reputation for themselves because
the critics are so sharp especially for this PeacePrize
that I think next time they probably
will think 10 times before they decide whoto give it to.
I think next time, probably, theCommittee will have to think
very hard beforethey decide whom to give it to
because they arebeing very badly criticized now.
They are shameless, I think.
You see, this man, we have got record about him.
It came fromAustralia
that he murdered people his own wife has said it.
I mean, if they want to give to a murderer, how can they give me, I'm not a murderer.
If that is the qualification!
It's going to be very difficult for all of you.
I am on the opposite line.
But there is another thing that's happeningis,
there is a peace conference in India.
All sponsored and helped and, I mean, originated by a
nephew of Nobel who lives in America.
And he wants to start a very big university called PeaceUniversity
in Alandi which is the place
where Shri Dnyaneshwara took his samadhi.
He was only 23 years of age, Dnyaneshwara,
and he took his samadhi.
This fellow went to Alandi and then he felt something about it.
And he just decided to have a Peace University.
But theman who is arranging is a man, [unclear]
his name is.
He is a man who has done a lot for this Alandi place and all.
But he not that honest also. It doesn't matter.
He has written to me with all protocol, everything, to Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi and all that.
3 letters he has written, "Please come and attend this
conference and bless us and enlighten us" and all that.
And also he has invited CP.
And he sent wordswith Yogis that,
"If CP can take over, it willbe a nice idea for this University".
I said, "CP will take them to task,
they should knowhe is an extremely honest man".
They don't knowabout him, I think.
He wouldn't like a Hanky Panky.
So, there will be a problem. But they have
invited him. And they have invited also few people,
all those who can come.
So, those who arecoming now for the Tour,
I thought if they could come a little earlier,
they could attend thisconference.
Also ask Philip also to come,
because they want to know about Kundalini.
Dnyaneshwara, imagine of allthe - after so many years,
they have seen thesamadhi of Dnyaneshwara. And he wants us to talkon Dnyaneshwara, his philosophy
And to start this university.
Now Dnyaneshwara has talked about Kundalinivery clearly,
on the sixth chapter.
Not thatfull knowledge, but at least he said that,
"That's one which does the job".
Sixth chapter in his Dnyaneshwari.
So, now how just see how
spontaneously it works and this mister
What's his name, is it Nobel? But something, I forgot the
first name. He and his wife,
both are veryanxious to start this. And they want to give a lot
of money but also they want money to be collected.
So, there was the man who is the director of this university.
His name is Ravi, South India, lives in USA.
It is that Ican't understand why
Sahaja Yoga doesn't spread in America.
They are money oriented people.They are not Spirit
oriented.
"Ah". Then he said, "If you charge money, they will come to if you.
If you ask for money, theywill come".
"So, what should I, how should I ask?"
He said, "At least, when they are coming for
the program, you must charge them".
More heavilyyou charge, the better it will be.  All that, [unclear]
I said, "I'm sorry to say, but such people areuseless for me, absolutely.
Those who are goingto come here
because they paying money I don'twant them".
But you know, I was playing with him, a little bit
maya.
I said, "All right, tell us how much we should charge".
The poor fellow! In the meanwhile, I raised his Kundalini.
So, he went awayhome. He said, "I don't know
what is  happening to me.
My life is changing, this thing, that thing".
Isaid, "Now tell me how much money you gave me".
It's a silly idea. I said, "I don't want such stupid Americans
who want to come because I'm charging them now money.
Such stupid people are not wanted in Sahaja Yoga".
You see, they say, there is no credibility if it is free, according to their ideas.
I said, "If they think they can pay forDivinity,
they should understand thatit is not possible".
I think, basically theydon't understand what is Divinity.
I think, basically.
Now so many seekers are there.
Like mad, they are seekers.
But all of them have lost their head.
They don't know why theyare seeking.
The other day I read one book called Peaceful Warrior
of one young boygetting that seeking within.
And then, he, somehow, meets a Zen guru.
And that Zen guru really tortures him, makes him run
for miles together, do this dothat.
Ultimately, he achieves, he says so.
My granddaughter was reading thatbook.
She said, "I'm so angry with guru, I would blast him.
What sort of a guru he was, the way he was torturing this boy?"
I said, "Zen system is not that bad.
But I don'tknow what they used to do.
If this is thecase, it's better not to do Zen".
But I've seen thosewho follow Zen,
it's difficult to give them Realization.
They are seekers, you see. What I'm saying,
even if they go to Zen, it's a seeking.
And all the seekers are to be blessed. And definitely they are seekers.
There were people from Rajneesh. Now they have come out. Some other people like ? and all that.
Alreadythere are all, poor things, have been ruined.
I told this Ravi, "They have no money to pay now.
It has all being taken away by these gurus".
He said, "If you charge more, the more
will come". There's this Dalai Lama,
he is a big beggar you know all around the world,
he is a famous beggar going around.
And all the actresses and actors called him
for a conference and gave him lots of money.
And this lady, Mother Teresa, very hot tempered.
And Rajesh copies her.They said, "You must callher,
we must meet her, this thing". All the Western people.
So, for this conference he called her. So, she said,
"You know,
when you eat your food", all the time,she is shaking like this and
"When you eat your food,think of the poor.
And when you are going out toenjoy life,
think of the poor". Means, you should be
miserable actually, minimum.
And after some time they found all the people who were there,
theystarted crying. I said, "Crocodile tears, will they give us some money?"
So, we have to look forward to those days,
when we'll have a nice place on the bank of river Ganges.
Already, in Delhi, they have started a big project,
you know about that?
We didn't know.
Ah, in Delhi, theyhave started a very big project and they
have got flats
they are offering for I don'tknow how many lacks of a piece.
It's not much because
whatthey are offering in 6 lakhs you can't get 46 for [unclear]
Out of which they said, "Mother, we will be getting
money more and then we'll build a big, huge [unclear]
place for meditation.
"Go ahead". So, theyare selling it out and-
but to foreigners also, they would like to sell.
But Isaid, "They would prefer to be in the Himalayas.
Because Delhi, Delhi is a very hot place, you know".
So, they said, "Mother, then what to do?"
I said, "You are getting all the Indians".
I said, "I can buy two flats for my daughter's contribution".
But it was such a venture and theygot it for a song
And theygot the permission from the government.
[Unclear]
Sahaja Yoga works in beautiful ways, you know.
Especially these East Tamul people, like this,
they have achieved such fame that's not easy for anybody.
There have been revolutions and revolutions.
Say, in France, there was such a big revolution so what?
They are worse than now the kings of those days, drinking.
I tell you whythey are angry with us,
Frenchare mostly, because we say we shouldnot drink.
Because all their wine will be wasted.
All that business will go off.
It's a good way. So, if you canput some
vibrated water, it won't ferment.
Once, I went to Switzerland, you see, and
I looked at all these fields of this growth of grapes
That year they said, "It did notferment at all".
They didn't know what had happened.
French are like that. In my book, I have written
about them. Little bit, not much but have you seen my book?
- I read the first edition.
- Hum?
I read the first one Shri Mataji, notthe revised one.
I don't have the revised one.
The revision is still on and on and on.
But now,I think, the revision will be coming very soon.
They make so many mistakes, so manymistakes!
Spelling mistakes these stupid Indians, youknow.
They don't know how to keep it allright
and they know English very well.
They gave it for editing to somebody
who knows English very well, you see.
I don't know what happened. Then lastly
I asked my daughter
She is a MA, first class, to see all that.
She said, "I can't understand all these mistakes, how they have come". Then she corrected all that.
Then she said, "Mother, certain things you have written which Indians won’t understand. I said, "What? "
"Like Greek tragedy, they won’t understand what it means".
Because we don't have that pattern, there.
All right. I said so many things of the
West, you can't describe. So horrible!
Like what happened in Belgium, how can you
describe in that book. Shocking, absolutelyshocking!
I mean, the way they dothings in the West,  is too much!
Unbelievable!
It's impossible. You know what happens to them?
Reading another book, American, thatman
was describing how to get rid ofthis fear that you have
that you may abuse your child. Really.
It's very difficult. "I was suggestingmyself that
you should slowly touch himand see what happens".
Poor man, he was feeling
so nervous and miserable for nothing at all!
First, all in the - even Italians, whenever they played football
andanybody made a goal,
means, you see, they have achieved that heaven, they used to
just hug, go on hugging each other. Now they don't.
They just touch like this, you see. But they are so excited
that they run out of the field.
It's so unnatural If they are happy they can't even hug!
It's the English disease, Mother.
They lost this time I think, Italians.
I didn't know that they had lost.
But I was watching the news and in that, they showed the Italians feeling very shy.
- So, I said, "What's the matter?"
- Big tragedy!
Big tragedy!
That's why I prefer, you see, Cricket. A
very quiet nice game. There is no problem in that.
We, in India, wan against the Australia,
but lost against South Africa. So, C P said,
"It is the best team. South Africa is the best team.
I mean,  youbecome really sporty with that. You understand the sport.
Because if you cannot enjoyin the game
another person, another group
and you just identified with your group, then it's not a sport. Isn't it?
You should be able toenjoy another person also.
But Italians don't know who is a good
player in other countries, they don't know. No.
You know, this gun is at me all the time, is it?
But it might get only lightand light and nothing else. Then what will happen?
You can’t have pity [unsure].
OK.
You got some miraculous photographs, I'm told.
Yes, Shri Mataji. We have.
They might say that wehave done it through computer projection.
Yes, what's the news?
- They ask if everythingis OK.
- Hum?
They are asking Mother's name and if everything is OK.
Mother is good.
- They ask if
- Loudly now.
Yes, yes. They ask if you need anything.
Now, what do I need now, you see?
Everything is OK.
What is that? Absolutely first. You see, I
a person who can live anywhere,
sleep anywhere, eat anything. I don't have all the sense
Of course, I appreciate beautifulthings.
But I don't want to have them, I appreciate.
What is that?
- Diner.
- Eating?
- Yes.
- All right.